NAME:  Furnace
TYPE:  Observational Study
SIZE:  90 observations, 10 variables

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:
Wisconsin Power and Light studied the effectiveness of two devices for
improving the efficiency of gas home-heating systems.  The electric
vent damper (EVD) reduces heat loss through the chimney when the
furnace is in its off cycle by closing off the vent.  It is controlled
electrically.  The thermally activated vent damper (TVD) is the same as
the EVD, except that it is controlled by the thermal properties of a
set of bimetal fins set in the vent.  Ninety test houses were used, 40
with TVDs and 50 with EVDs.  For each house, energy consumption was
measured for a period of several weeks with the vent damper active and
for a period with the damper not active.  This should help show how
effective the vent damper is in each house.

Both overall weather conditions and the size of a house can greatly
affect energy consumption.  A simple formula was used to try and adjust
for this.  Average energy consumed by the house during on period was
recorded as (consumption)/[(weather)(house area)], where consumption is
total energy consumption for the period, measured in BTUs, weather is
measured in number of degree days, and house area is measured in square
feet.  In addition, various characteristics of the house , chimney, and
furnace were recorded for each house.  A few observations were missing
and recorded as NA.

SOURCES:
  Ryan, B.F. and Joiner, B.L. Minitab Handbook, 3rd edition.  Page A-4.

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:

 1. Type: Type of furnace (1 = forced air, 2 = gravity, 3 = forced water)
 2. CHArea: Chimney area
 3. CHShape: Chimney shape (1 = round, 2 = square, 3 = rectangular)
 4. CHHeight: Chimney height
 5. CHLiner: Type of chimney liner (0 = unlined, 1 = tile, 2 = metal)
 6. House: Type of house (1 = ranch, 2 = two-story, 3 = tri-level, 
	   4 = bi-level, 5 = one and one-half stories)
 7. Age: House age in years (99 means 99 or more years)
 8. BTUIn: Average energy consumption with vent damper active
 9. BTUOut: Average energy consumption with vent damper inactive
10. Damper: Type of damper (1 = EVD, 2 = TVD)

